---
ID: 117
post_title: Mac turns 30
author: Joseph J. Ross, Esq.
post_date: 2014-01-25 06:07:00
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://joeross.me/blog/links/mac-turns-30/
published: true
tumblr_geek-esq_permalink:
  - >
    http://geek-esq.tumblr.com/post/74465170484/mac-turns-30
tumblr_geek-esq_id:
  - "74465170484"
gfonts_meta_no_font:
  - "1"
---
<a href='http://www.apple.com/30-years/1984/'>Mac turns 30</a><div class="link_description"><p>Steve Jobs, in 1985:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>We’re just in the beginning stages of what will be a truly remarkable breakthrough for most people — as remarkable as the telephone.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The remarkable thing is that, at least for people my age, ~30, as old as the Mac itself, the computer is far more remarkable than the telephone ever was. We were raised with the telephone as a commonplace thing, the way our children and nephews and nieces are growing up with iPhones and iPads.</p>

<p><!-- more --></p>

<p>Our computers used the telephone as merely a means to an end, a mode of connectivity. Think about that for a moment: the previous household&#8217;s most advanced piece of technology (except perhaps for the television, which is an interesting argument) ended as just a feature in the next generation&#8217;s most advanced pieces of technology.</p>

<p>I don&#8217;t know whether that&#8217;s good or bad for society taken in the aggregate, but the ability of technology to truly and ineffably amaze is gloriously unrelenting. I see no difference, no separating line, between technology and art. Each is made to convey meaning, to delight, to terrify, to teach, to challenge perceptions, and to inspire those who come after us.</p>

<p>Technology and art, or technology as art, or art as technology, are always examples of the same thing:</p>

<p>Humans dreaming, and then building the dream.</p>

<p>What a neat idea.</p></div>