---
ID: 879
post_title: >
  Snapchat selfie gets teen arrested on
  murder charge
author: Joseph J. Ross, Esq.
post_date: 2015-02-10 14:37:00
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://joeross.me/blog/links/snapchat-selfie-gets-teen-arrested-on-murder/
published: true
tumblr_geek-esq_permalink:
  - >
    http://geek-esq.tumblr.com/post/110633238244/snapchat-selfie-gets-teen-arrested-on-murder
tumblr_geek-esq_id:
  - "110633238244"
gfonts_meta_no_font:
  - "1"
---
<a href='http://www.post-gazette.com/local/east/2015/02/07/Jeannette16-year-old-faces-murder-charge-in-teen-s-shooting-death/stories/201502070133'>Snapchat selfie gets teen arrested on murder charge</a><div class="link_description"><p>Jill Daly, reporting at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>On Thursday, a woman told police her son had a copy of a Snapchat photo sent from the accused. Jeannette Sgt. Donald Johnston saw the photo, depicting the wounded victim in the chair as found by his mother. It also depicted a young man taking a “selfie” with the victim in the background. The photo had the name “MAXWELL” across the top and the young man was identified by Sgt. Johnston as Maxwell Morton.</p>
</blockquote>

<p>The inapplicability of words like &#8220;ephemeral&#8221; and &#8220;private&#8221; to Snapchat is <a href="http://money.cnn.com/2014/10/10/technology/mobile/snapchat-not-private/" target="_blank">well-documented</a>. But it&#8217;s not common knowledge, and this suspect&#8217;s use of the app to send photos of the deceased victim, including one of the suspect <em>posing</em> with the decedent, illustrates the consequences of that ignorance.</p>

<p>An interesting side effect of the prevalence of photo sharing apps incorrectly seen as ephemeral or private is the preservation of a photographic record of the crime or its aftermath. It&#8217;s safe to say that the selfie in question would damage the defense&#8217;s case if introduced at trial. This case involved a third-party recipient of the photos, whose mother volunteered the photos to the police, negating the need to obtain a warrant.</p>

<p>It&#8217;s a strange reversal of the Big Brother scenario when defendants preserve and disseminate evidence connecting them to crime. Prosecutors and defense attorneys alike should keep well-informed about popular messaging apps of all kinds. The availability, and perhaps questionable admissibility, of documentary evidence generated by smartphones is not something attorneys can ignore in good faith.</p></div>